# Pima_Indian_Diabetes_Predection
Abstract: The diabetes dataset is a binary classification problem where it needs to be analysed whether a patient is suffering from the disease or not on the basis of many available features in the dataset. Different methods and procedures of cleaning the data, feature extraction, feature engineering and algorithms to predict the onset of diabetes are used based for diagnostic measure on Pima Indians Diabetes Dataset.

Keywords machine learning: Pima Indians Diabetes dataset; binary classification; features; feature extraction; feature engineering; support vector machine; MLP; neural netwroks; Decision tree; Linear regression heat map; pairplot; violin plot; feature importance.

Database - Pima Indians Diabetes Dataset Pima Indian Diabetes dataset has 9 attributes in total. All the person in records are females and the number of pregnancies they have had has been recorded as the first attribute of the dataset. Second is the value of Plasma glucose concentration a 2 hours in an oral glucose tolerance test and then is the Diastolic blood pressure (mm Hg), fourth in line is the Triceps skin fold thickness (mm), then is the 2-Hour serum insulin (mu U/ml), sixth is Body mass index (weight in kg/ (height in m) ^2) and then seventh is the Diabetes pedigree function and the second last value is the that of the Age (years). The ninth column is that of the Class variable (0 or 1), 0 for no diabetes and 1 for the presence. To start with we first take a description of the dataset. We infer not much from this except the facts like we have a data datset of 768 lines and the maximum values of the Age and Pregnancies. Nothing more is of much use for the prediction. We also calculated the number of datsets that were positive to the test of diabetes and those who were negetive and the value came out to be 268 and 500 respectively. We decided to take the mean value of BMI and found that the average value of a person suffering from the disease has mean BMI value as 35.14 which means that they are not healthy and obese. It is also interesting to note that the mean BMI value for the people who are not suffering from the disease is 30 which is the threshold value of people becoming obese. The mean value of the second parameter Glucose (Plasma glucose concentration) was done we found that those who suffered from the disease had mean value as 141.25 which indicates pre-diabetic state of hyperglycaemia that is associated with insulin resistance and increased risk of cardiovascular pathology.

Conclusion: We applied many algorithms and did a lot of feature manipulation and extraction. We got the best accuracy of 80.5% using hypo perameters optimization with xgboost. A lot of information about the dataset was also extracted without using complex algorithms. We were also able to perform a lot of exploratory data analysis and came to many conclusions. Random Forest and Ensemble Learning can probably find a better result. Our result was also very close to the best result found and this shows that at the right parameters
